+++
title = "Parental, peer and school experiences as predictors of alcohol drinking among first and second generation immigrant adolescents in Israel"
date = "2014-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["Sophie D. Walsh", "Amir Djalovski", "Meyran Boniel-Nissim", "Yossi Harel-Fisch"]
publication = "In: Drug and Alcohol Dependence, (138), 1, _pp. 39--47_, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2014.01.024, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2014.01.024"
abstract = "Background: Ecological perspectives stress the importance of environmental predictors of adolescent alcohol use, yet little research has examined such predictors among immigrant adolescents. This study examines parental, peer and school predictors of alcohol drinking (casual drinking, binge drinking and drunkenness) among Israeli-born adolescents and first and second generation adolescent immigrants from the Former Soviet Union (FSU) and Ethiopia in Israel. Methods: The study uses data from the 2010 to 2011 Israeli Health Behaviors of School age Children (HBSC) survey and includes a representative sample of 3059 adolescents, aged 11-17. Differences between the groups for drinking were examined using Pearson's chi square. Logistic regression models were used to examine group specific predictors of drinking. Results: First generation FSU and both Ethiopian groups reported higher levels of binge drinking and drunkenness than Israeli-born adolescents. All immigrant groups reported lower levels of parental monitoring than native born adolescents; both first generation groups reported difficulties talking to parents; and first generation FSU and second generation Ethiopian adolescents reported greater time with friends. Group specific logistic regression models suggest that while parent, peer and school variables all predicted alcohol use among Israeli adolescents, only time spent with peers consistently predicted immigrant alcohol use. Conclusions: Findings highlight specific vulnerability of first generation FSU and second generation Ethiopian adolescents to high levels of drinking and the salience of time spent with peers as predicting immigrant adolescent drinking patterns. They suggest that drinking patterns must be understood in relation to country of origin and immigration experience of a particular group. ?? 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
