+++
title = "International trends in electronic media communication among 11- to 15-year-olds in 30 countries from 2002 to 2010: Association with ease of communication with friends of the opposite sex"
date = "2015-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["Meyran Boniel-Nissim", "Michela Lenzi", "Emese Zsiros", "Margarida Gaspar M.G. {De Matos}", "Rob Gommans", "Yossi Harel-Fisch", "Amir Djalovski", "Winfried {Van Der Sluijs}"]
publication = "In: European Journal of Public Health, (25), suppl 2, _pp. 41--45_, https://doi.org/10.1093/eurpub/ckv025, http://eurpub.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/doi/10.1093/eurpub/ckv025"
abstract = "Background: Electronic media has become a central part of the lives of adolescents. Therefore, this study examines trends in adolescent electronic media communication (EMC) and its relationship with ease of communication with friends of the opposite sex, from 2002 to 10 in 30 European and North American regions. Methods: Data from the HBSC study were collected using self-report questionnaires from 11-, 13- and 15-year-old participants (N = 404 523). Results: EMC use has grown over the years in most of these regions and increases with age. Even though Internet usage is often blamed for its negative effects on teenagers' social interactions in the physical world, in this study EMC was found to predict ease of communication with friends. Especially, the more they use EMC, the easier they find it to talk with friends of the opposite sex. Although these findings suggest that EMC reinforces communication, the interaction between year (2002-2006-2010) and EMC usage was not significant. Conclusion: This finding contradicts research that suggests that EMC contributes to loneliness and isolation, and supports other studies that present electronic media as a powerful tool for helping to connect people."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
